README.md, before:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020 The birch-books-smarthome Authors

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
-->

# Birch Books Smart Home

This repository contains code, schematics, documentation and notes to implement a
MCU-controlled LED lights system for the [LEGO Creator Bookshop
set](https://www.lego.com/en-gb/product/bookshop-10270) (10270).

## Further References

Refer to my [blog posts](https://flameeyes.blog/tag/birch-books/) for details.

## License

Copyright 2020 The birch-books-smarthome authors.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this
software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify,
merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or
substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT
OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.

Commit message:

Expand documentation.
Includes some commentary around the boards, and a link to one of the pictures to explain what this is all about.

README.md, after:

<!--
SPDX-FileCopyrightText: 2020 The birch-books-smarthome Authors

SPDX-License-Identifier: MIT
-->

# Birch Books Smart Home

![https://live.staticflickr.com/65535/49891973962_5adf0ecabe_5k.jpg](Lighting up the 
scene)

This repository contains code, schematics, documentation and notes to implement a
MCU-controlled LED lights system for the [LEGO Creator Bookshop
set](https://www.lego.com/en-gb/product/bookshop-10270) (10270).

## Further References

Refer to my [blog posts](https://flameeyes.blog/tag/birch-books/) for details.

You can see some pictures of the results on [my Flickr
album](https://www.flickr.com/photos/flameeyes/albums/72157714292772872).

## License

Copyright 2020 The birch-books-smarthome authors.

Permission is hereby granted, free of charge, to any person obtaining a copy of this
software and associated documentation files (the "Software"), to deal in the Software
without restriction, including without limitation the rights to use, copy, modify,
merge, publish, distribute, sublicense, and/or sell copies of the Software, and to
permit persons to whom the Software is furnished to do so, subject to the following
conditions:

The above copyright notice and this permission notice shall be included in all copies or
substantial portions of the Software.

THE SOFTWARE IS PROVIDED "AS IS", WITHOUT WARRANTY OF ANY KIND, EXPRESS OR IMPLIED,
INCLUDING BUT NOT LIMITED TO THE WARRANTIES OF MERCHANTABILITY, FITNESS FOR A PARTICULAR
PURPOSE AND NONINFRINGEMENT. IN NO EVENT SHALL THE AUTHORS OR COPYRIGHT HOLDERS BE
LIABLE FOR ANY CLAIM, DAMAGES OR OTHER LIABILITY, WHETHER IN AN ACTION OF CONTRACT, TORT
OR OTHERWISE, ARISING FROM, OUT OF OR IN CONNECTION WITH THE SOFTWARE OR THE USE OR
OTHER DEALINGS IN THE SOFTWARE.
